>> Scott Moss: Hopefully some of the stuff
we've talked about so far in the GraphQL
schema definition language has
been nothing short of impressive.
Because I remember when I was first
learning GraphQL, I was like,
I don't know why I would ever
use anything else than this.
But it's not a perfect solution,
it's definitely a tool for
a specific problem.
I guess it's like one of those times
where you start using TypeScript for
the first time or any type language and
you're like, wow,
I don't have to write tests to see
if something is this certain type.
Assuming you wrote tests in the first
place, it kind of felt like that.
But let's keep it moving on some
of the other things in the skeeba
definition language.
Talked about unions.
We already talked about these type
modifiers like exclamation and
list fields, nothing crazy there.
We didn't talk about relationships,
so let's talk about relationships.
And this is really like the whole crux of
like GraphQL, like everything's a graph,
there's relational data.
And the rest, this is so
hard to figure out and resolve but here,
with GraphQL, it's quite simple,
at least on the schema side.
On the resolver side,
I think this is where it gets confusing to
a lot of people, and
we'll cover that today, obviously.
But let's hop into the relationships,
so for the relationships,
let's go back to our code, and
like I said before, please follow along.
Let's see, what's a good example
we can do for a relationship?
So we can say, how about we say,
we can say a profile has a person,
cuz I don't fully like making another one.
So let's say a profile can have a person,
so I can give it a field called person,
right, and then I can say its
type is person, not null.
And then do we have a query for profile?
Yes, we do on the union search.
So I'll do the search result query,
I'll get a profile,
then I'll get the person on the profile,
so let's check that out.
So I'm gonna go back to our example here,
refresh this,
make sure nothing broke, cool?
And you'll know, when you refresh this,
if your schema was jacked up,
this would not load.
So if this loads, your schema's good,
[LAUGH] you didn't do anything
wrong as far as syntax.
You might not have the right behavior that
you're expecting, but as far as syntax,
you didn't do anything wrong.
So it's really executing code at runtime,
you're gonna get syntax errors
if you try to execute it.
So if the server tries
to execute your schema,
it will throw an error if
something is not valid.
So something to keep an eye out on,
so we got that.
I don't care about
the tweet stuff right now.
I'm just gonna say profile, and then for
profile, I wanna get the person.
And you can see right here I get
all the fields for a person.
So I can say I want the backstory,
I want the name, yeah,
let's just run those.
So all you have to do is just expand it,
on an object type.
So anything that's a relationship, you
just have to put your brackets here, and
you can make it, you pick what fields you
want there, and you hit that, there we go.
We got our person,
we got our fields there.
It comes back exactly the way that
you think it would've come back as
a nested object.
It's pretty simple, right?
Let's run into a scenario that
where it gets quite complicated.
So let's say I have a person type,
but on the person type,
I also want to be able to look
at the profile of a person.
So I can say a person also has a profile,
>> Scott Moss: Right?
We're saying a profile has a person and
a person has a profile, it's a one-to-one
relationship, that's very common,
so this is how you would do that.
I have a person that has a profile,
a person has a profile, and
a profile that has a person.
So if I go back here, and I'm refreshing,
but I don't think you have to refresh,
this tool is pinging your schema like
every one second to get the latest,
I just refresh for sanity reasons.
So now if I'm on a person and
I say, okay, cool,
I wanna get the profile of the person.
Okay, cool, I get the profile.
And I wanna get the profiles username,
so I run that.
There we go.
So I do a search result, I get a profile,
I get the person of that profile,
and then I get the profile of that person.
So as you might be aware of,
this can be bad, right,
cuz I can keep going, I can say,
well, cool, give me the user or
give me the person of that, and
then give me the profile of that.
And then give me the person of that and
then give profile of that, and
you can just keep going and
going and going and going, and
this is the cyclic nature
of a GraphQL schema.
Depending on the resources of your
machine where this is running,
it will definitely
attempt to execute that.
This will probably return instantly
if I did it cause I think it's all
just running In memory.
Let's see.
Or maybe they built in some protections,
let's find out.
No, this returns instantly because
it's they're just using recursion and
going all the way down and
doing this in memory.
But if each one of these was a database
query or an API call, I don't know.
This depending on your machine and
where this code is running, this might not
ever resolve, you might get a timeout, you
might get errors, you might get issues.
So very quickly,
if you had a developer facing GraphQL API.
And someone noticed this cyclic
relationship between two nodes and
they wanted to DDoS you, there's
nothing stopping her from doing that.
I can just write a script that creates,
I don't know, 300 nested profile person,
nested objects and just run that in
a loop and see what happens to your API.
So that would suck, and that's one of
the downsides of graphic about the box is
that because it's graph,
you have these cyclic relationships and.
And there isn't anything built into
the GraphQL spec that will stop this
from happening.
However, there are tools and
plugins outside of the GraphQL
spec that kind of prevent this and
they all have their own different
trade-offs, there is no perfect solution.
But it's mostly a concern with
developer facing GraphQL APIs.
If you're building a GraphQL API for
your own product,
then don't write a query that
does that and you'll be fine.
But you can't help what
developers might do, so
there are ways to get around it and
circumvent it.
And caching is something
that can help with that, and
there's different ways to cache.
I've seen people, what they'll do is,
they'll give, it's so complicated but
like, though we haven't talked
about directives yet, but
you can add directives
here that like do things.
And something you might do is
>> Scott Moss: You might say,
this thing has like, a score of,
I don't know, five or something like that.
And you might put in your code that no
query can be of score more than 200.
So once it starts going
through all these fields,
it'll start counting the score like, you
went over 200 so the query stopped, right,
so it can do things like that.
There's like so
many ways I've seen people attempt this.
It really depends on the experience
you wanna offer to your developers, so
you can, you can call it a score,
you can call it a weight, there's many,
many different ways.
I've seen people say,
they jack into the abstract syntax tree,
the AST of GraphQL schema, and
count how many times you go down a level.
And then they can say, we're only gonna
let you go down in amount of levels,
once you go past that, we stop it,
we throw an error you can't go further,
there's no one way, and
they all have trade offs.
It's all about the developer
experience at that point.
But again, if you're building an API for
your own consumption and your own app,
this is not a problem.
Just don't write a query that
does that and protect your API so
it's not used by anyone,
not on your app, you're fine.
>> Scott Moss: Cool,
any questions on that?
>> Scott Moss: Yes.
>> Learner: I don't see any data in
Terso related to person, alien, tweet,
etc, where is the data coming from?
>> Scott Moss: It's a great question,
so we kind of breezed over it earlier,
we haven't gotten to the part of making
a schema where you actually make the data.
We're gonna do that as soon as we go
through the schema definition language.
So where's the data coming from?
If you go into the route TS file of /API,
/app/api/graphql
route right here where we're
making a new Apollo Server.
We're using this function called
addMocksToSchema, what this function does,
is it does exactly what it says it does,
it will add mock data to your schema.
So here's our schema, we give it
our schema, and what it will do is,
whenever we query that schema,
it will generate mock data for us,
based off the primitive or
scholar types of those fields.
So the C string,
it will probably return hello world.
If it sees number, it'll return
a random number, if it sees booing,
it'll return random true or false.
So if you think about it, the schema,
and this is not just what GraphQL,
this is like even a database schema.
Everything always resolves down to
a primitive or scholar type, right?
A character has a name that's a string,
right, even if a person has a profile,
a profile resolves down to
just these scholar types, and
this resolves to scholar types.
So everything is a scholar eventually,
unless it's cyclic like this,
and then it's like infinitely
it's cyclic and that's the issue.
So because everything is predictable and
is a scholar type,
they can just use recursion to figure out.
I'll just loop through this query and
satisfy all these scholar fields with
a string, a number of Boolean,
an ID and that type of thing.
So it's actually quite simple, but
that's what's doing it right now.
Yes?
>> Learner: So there are different caches,
like client side,
create cache and server GraphQL cache.
>> Scott Moss: Are the different caches?
So okay, so
let's talk about cashing fo a little bit,
I'll just briefly talk about it.
And this is nothing to do with GraphQL.
Caching on the front end
in a React app has nothing
to do with what caching strategies
you do on the back end,
has nothing to do with GraphQL, so
yeah, that also applies to GraphQL.
There are two separate things, you don't
wanna be caching some users data in
a place where all the other
users can access it.
So you separate the things but yeah,
there are specific mechanisms to cache
with GraphQL, but for the most part,
on a high level, it's the same as
anything else, so no difference there.